Issue #24577: edit commonly-used-collection-types.md (#24614)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/collections/commonly-used-collection-types.md

---

> # Commonly Used Collection Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Commonly used collection types
```

> Collection types represent ways to collect data, such as hash tables, queues, stacks, bags, dictionaries, and lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collection types represent different ways to collect data, such as hash tables, queues, stacks, bags, dictionaries, and lists.
```

> All collections are based on the <xref:System.Collections.ICollection> interface. <xref:System.Collections.IList>, <xref:System.Collections.IDictionary> and their generic counterparts both derive from <xref:System.Collections.ICollection>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All collections are based on the <xref:System.Collections.ICollection> or <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601> interface, either directly or indirectly. <xref:System.Collections.IList> and <xref:System.Collections.IDictionary> and their generic counterparts all derive from these two interfaces. 
```

> In collections based on <xref:System.Collections.IList>, or directly on <xref:System.Collections.ICollection>, every element contains only a value. Examples include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In collections based on <xref:System.Collections.IList> or directly on <xref:System.Collections.ICollection>, every element contains only a value. These types include:
```

- <xref:System.Array>
- <xref:System.Collections.ArrayList>
- <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601> 
- <xref:System.Collections.Queue>
- <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentQueue%601>
- <xref:System.Collections.Stack>
- <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentStack%601>
- <xref:System.Collections.Generic.LinkedList%601>

> In collections based on the <xref:System.Collections.IDictionary> interface, every element contains both a key and a value. Examples include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In collections based on the <xref:System.Collections.IDictionary> interface, every element contains both a key and a value. These types include:
```

- <xref:System.Collections.Hashtable> 
- <xref:System.Collections.SortedList>  
- <xref:System.Collections.Generic.SortedList%602> 
- <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602>  
- <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentDictionary%602>  

The <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.KeyedCollection%602> class is unique because it is a list of values with keys embedded within the values. As a result, it behaves both like a list and like a dictionary.  

When you need efficient multi-threaded collection access, use the generic collections in the <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent> namespace.

> ## Creating generic collections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Strong typing
```

> Generic collections are the best solution to strong typing. A `List<xref:System.Int32>`, for instance, will present a compile-time error if you add any other type to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generic collections are the best solution to strong typing. For example, adding any type other than an <xref:System.Int32> to a `List<Int32>` collection causes a compile-time error.
```

> If your language does not support generics, the <xref:System.Collections> namespace includes abstract base classes that you can extend to create strongly-typed collections: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if your language does not support generics, the <xref:System.Collections> namespace includes abstract base classes that you can extend to create collection classes that are strongly typed. These base classes include:
```

- <xref:System.Collections.CollectionBase>
- <xref:System.Collections.ReadOnlyCollectionBase>
- <xref:System.Collections.DictionaryBase>

## How collections vary
  

> Collections vary depending on how they store elements, how they perform searches, how they compare elements, and how they are sorted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collections vary in how they store, sort, and compare elements, and how they perform searches. 
```

All collections use zero-based indexes except <xref:System.Array>, which allows arrays that are not zero-based.  

### Sorting

> You cannot sort the <xref:System.Collections.Hashtable> or the <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602> classes. The <xref:System.Collections.SortedList> class and the generic <xref:System.Collections.Generic.SortedList%602> provide sorted versions of these collections.

Reviewer: I don't think that's true. You can call OrderBy to sort dictionaries and hash tables. I would just keep the original version of this sentence.

> The <xref:System.Collections.Queue> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Queue%601> classes provide first-in-first-out lists. The <xref:System.Collections.Stack> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Stack%601> classes provide last-in-first-out lists. 

Reviewer: This doesn't have anything to do with sorting.

 
### Accessing elements

You can only access the elements of a <xref:System.Collections.Hashtable> or a <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602> by the element's key. 
 
You can access the elements of a <xref:System.Collections.SortedList> or a <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.KeyedCollection%602> by either the key or the element's index. 
 
## Using LINQ with collection types
  

> The LINQ to Objects feature provides a common pattern for accessing the in-memory objects of any type that implements <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable> or <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable%601>. LINQ queries have several benefits over standard constructs like `foreach` loops:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LINQ to Objects feature provides a common pattern for accessing in-memory objects of any type that implements <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable> or <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable%601>. LINQ queries have several benefits over standard constructs like `foreach` loops:
```

> - They are concise and easier to understand

Reviewer: Please add periods to the bullet points.

> - They can filter, order and group data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- They can filter, order, and group data.
```
